---
title: "37th regular meeting"
date: 2024-03-06
---

9 ppl were present

## Open Exchange

- John Aycock will give a talk on tuesday on archaeogaming: https://www.sas.ac.uk/events/archaeogaming-antics-computer-science-meets-archaeology, London time zone 4-5pm
- New ggplot2 release 3.5.0: https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2024/02/ggplot2-3-5-0/
   - changes implementation of legends and may break code
- Job postings for ADS positions: https://archaeo.social/@BlckheathHopper/112004422203426152
- Clarivate's Web of Science and JOSS (Journal of Open Source Software, minimal review process on Github, 2-page introductions to software, nice to have something to cite) - dispute: https://neuromatch.social/@jonny/112012152112087956
- Short update on French CAA chapter: sounds good, says Julian Laabs
- MOSAIC summer school 2024: no news yet?
- James Allison on EAA chapter of SIG interest: 9 papers submitted, 8 accepted
   - The organizers have not yet decided whether there will be an open space for spontanously presenting during the session (similar to the Little Minion sessions at CAA)
   - At EAA everyone may only present one main-author presentation, so these short elevator pitches might be great as a second minor presentation

## Survey on SIG presentations and projects

- We will ask Nicolas Frerebreau first, then Shawn Graham, JÃ¶rg Baten and Daniel Kondor
- We will aks Nicolas to join us for the May meeting and see how it goes from there
- Winner for SIG project: Make old software useful again
   - e.g. https://github.com/sslarch/tfqar
   - James Allison has some old software in Turbo Pascal (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Turbo_Pascal)
   - There might be automatic code translation programs already implemented, depends on the pascal version
   - Maybe LLMs could be useful, but buggy - sometimes helpful, sometimes take longer than to do it by hand
   - How do we get more concrete with this idea?
      - Gather project ideas and use a meeting to pitch them, then decide together which ones might be interesting for enough for ppl to create a working group
      - The result does not need to be an R package
      - @Everyone: please look for fitting little programs we could work on

## Map of Computational Archaeology Teaching Material

- The map could be a bit more interesting, so more worthwhile to re-visit.
- Ideas to achieve that:
   - Automatically query papers for key words relating to the topics on the map?
      - Ben Marwick's automated R Archaeology paper bot did something similar? -> Is he still maintaing that? https://github.com/benmarwick/ctv-archaeology/blob/master/README.md#publications-that-include-r-code
   - Highlight some specific, particularly good materials? Could help ppl to choose where to start?
   - Re-toot the map regularly to remind ppl and invite them to add material
      - Easy to do this automatically every time the map is updated for mastodon -> but this depends on ppl adding new material in the first place

## next meeting: 3rd April 2024
