---
title: "41th regular meeting"
date: 2024-10-02
---

4 ppl attended

## SIG-SSLA Projects

- Project TFQA:
  - **Progress:** Significant progress has been made, thanks to Jim. He has implemented the first function, which could serve as the foundation for developing this into a complete package. There is a comment in the TFQA repository (Issue #3) with a link to Jim's code.  
  - **Next Steps:** Please review the code and work towards structuring it into a package. Follow the provided example to expand functionality and increase the project's scope.  
  - **Task:** Compile a "correlation table" comparing functionalities across **Tesselle**, **base R**, **TFQA**, and other relevant packages. This will help us assess what functionality already exists and identify areas for further development.
- Project: Session for CAA2025
  - **Session Update:** The session has been accepted, and the Call for Papers (CfP) is expected to be released tomorrow.  
  - **Action Item:** Consider contributing a talk on APIs and DSLs (Domain-Specific Languages) to this session.  
  - **Timeline:** The CfP will likely close at the end of October or early November, so no immediate action is required before our next meeting. Keep the deadline in mind.
- Project: Workshop for CAA2025
  - **Proposal:** Sophie has proposed organizing an SSLA workshop or hackathon at CAA 2025, with a focus on advancing TFQA development.  
  - **Target Audience:** This workshop would be aimed at more experienced programmers and would offer a hybrid format, allowing for remote participation for those unable to attend in person in Athens.  
  - **Action Item:** A poll will be posted in the Elements Chat to gauge interest and support for this idea.
- Other Topics:
  - **Postponed Items:**  
    - Discussion on software funding opportunities and the open-access collection has been deferred to the next meeting. Please contribute ideas and materials in the meantime.
  - **CRAN and OpenArcheo Discussion:**  
    - A suggestion emerged during a discussion about CRAN's role. It was proposed that OpenArcheo could benefit from a filter for package language, making it easier to identify R packages not hosted on CRAN, particularly if issues persist with the CRAN Task View for Archaeology.

## Next SIG Meeting: Wednesday, November 6, 2024
