---
title: "42nd regular meeting"
date: 2024-11-06
---

5 ppl attended

## General exchange

- CAA 2025 conference
  - Please consider to submit an abstract to our main session on computational interfaces (APIs/DSLs) and advertise it among your colleagues: https://2025.caaconference.org/call-for-papers/session-list/#S52
  - Nobody has so far taken the initative for the proposed TFQA workshop/hackathon (see the minutes from our previous meeting: https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2024-10-02), but multiple SIG members have offered to join as participants if it was to happen. Please consider organizing it - the SIG would not leave you hanging
  - Lisa Steinmann advertised a CAA2025 session on "Comparing the Incomparable: Managing and Analyzing Data from Heterogeneous Sources in Archaeological Research" (https://2025.caaconference.org/call-for-papers/session-list/#S17)
- Diamond Archaeology
  - Zack Batist introduced a new website project listing Diamond Open Access journals in Archaeology: https://diamond.open-archaeo.info
  - Feel free to join the project and the ongoing discussion on how to further develop this resource
  - The SIG SSLA decided to advertise it on their Mastodon account
  - Zack also created a new GitHub organization for this and other projects (https://github.com/open-archaeo) to where he eventually also wants to move the repo behind the original open-archeo website (https://open-archaeo.info)
- Funding sources list
  - A discussion in a previous meeting (https://sslarch.github.io/minutes/2024-09-04) let to the creation of a list of funding resources for scientific open source software development: https://github.com/orgs/sslarch/discussions/52
  - As these opportunities are prone to change we decided not to present or organize them beyond the GitHub discussion thread where they currently are
- Computational Archaeology Discord Community
  - Reminder that this network exists as well - it is closely related to the goals of the SIG SSLA: https://book.archnetworks.net/#Discord
- James Allison's LDen
  - James started the translation work of specific TFQA functions: https://github.com/jallison7/LDen
  - He asked for feedback on performance issues and multiple SIG members offered to look into the code
- Dwindling numbers
  - Attendance at the SIG SSLA meetings is low right now. Ideas to improve that:
    - Advertise on the Computational Archaeology Discord
    - Invite back former regulars
    - Invite more female speakers to our presentation format

## Next SIG Meeting: Wednesday, Dezember 4, 2024

We invited an external speaker, but at the time of writing these minutes we already know that they are not available for this meeting. More information will follow.
